Update usaco-810 (#2121)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-810.mdx

---
id: usaco-810
source: USACO Silver 2018 Silver
title: Rest Stops
author: Vivian Han
---

## Explanation

> Suppose that early in the hike there is a rest stop with tastiness $c$, but later there is a rest stop with tastiness $C$, where $C>c$. Then it is never optimal for Bessie to spend any time at the first rest stop, with tastiness $c$. If she did, she could spend the same amount of time at the later rest stop instead and earn more tastiness units. Doing this, she would still never be behind Farmer John. So the only rest stops which Bessie might stop at are the ones which have more tastiness than any subsequent rest stops.

Reviewer: maybe different variable names for `c` and `C`?

Reviewer 2: this

 Now we can simply perform a greedy algorithm: never stop at non-right-maximal rest stops. At a right-maximal rest stop, Bessie should stop there as long as possible (i.e. until Farmer John catches up with her). Then she proceeds, until the next right-maximal rest stop.

To see correctness of this greedy algorithm, suppose Bessie did not spend as long as possible at some right-maximal rest stop $R$. Then she would leave this rest stop $t$ seconds early, for some positive $t$. Suppose the next place Bessie stops is rest stop $r$. We could improve Bessie's tastiness intake by having her spend $1$ less second at $r$, and $1$ more second at rest stop $R$. It can be verified that Bessie will still never be behind Farmer John, and since the tastiness at $R$ is greater than the tastiness at $r$, we improved Bessie's outcome. Therefore no optimal solution will leave a right-maximal rest stop early, and our greedy algorithm is correct.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N)$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <fstream>
using namespace std;

> int32_t trailLen, stopNum, fRate, bRate;

Reviewer 2: 1. use `int` instead of `int32_t`
2. no reason for these variables to be global, just declare them in `main`

> const int maxTrailLen = 100000;

Reviewer 2: can you move this above all the variables

int32_t x[maxTrailLen];

> int32_t c[maxTrailLen];

Reviewer 2: better variable names or comments explaining them

bool good[maxTrailLen];

int main()
{

> 
> 	ifstream in;
> 	in.open("reststops.in");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	ifstream in("reststops.in");
```

	in >> trailLen >> stopNum >> fRate >> bRate;
	// scan in rest stop data
	for (int i = 0 ; i < stopNum; i++) {
		in >> x[i] >> c[i];
	}

	// find all "best" stops
	int32_t max = 0;
	for (int i = stopNum-1; i >= 0; i--) {
		good[i] = false;
		if (c[i] > max) { // there are no stops after stop i that are "better"
			good[i] = true;
			max = c[i];
		}
	}

	// simulate the whole trail
	long long prevStopPos = 0;
	long long ans = 0;
	for (int i = 0; i < stopNum; i++) {
		if (good[i]) {
			long long travelDist = x[i] - prevStopPos;
			long long fTime = travelDist * fRate;
			long long bTime = travelDist * bRate;
			long long restTime = fTime - bTime;
			ans += restTime * c[i];
			prevStopPos = x[i];
		}
	}

	ofstream out;
	out.open("reststops.out");
	out << ans << endl;
	out.close();
}
```

</CPPSection>

<JavaSection>

```java
import java.io.*;

public class RestStops {

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

	static int[] x, c;

> 	static boolean[] good; // tracks whether each stop is right-maximal or not

Reviewer 2: so put a space after the line of code for an inline comment
so just
```suggestion
	static boolean[] good;  // tracks whether each stop is right-maximal or not
```

	public static void main(String[] args) {

> 		try {

Reviewer 2: uh remove try catch?

Author: ... BufferedReader requires try catch

---
id: usaco-810
source: USACO Silver 2018 Silver
title: Rest Stops
author: Vivian Han
---

## Explanation

> Suppose that early in the hike there is a rest stop with tastiness $A$, but 
> later there is a rest stop with tastiness $B$ where $B>A$. Then, it is never 
> optimal for Bessie to spend any time at the first rest stop with tastiness $A$. 
> If she did, she could spend the same amount of time at the later rest stop 
> instead and earn more tastiness units; she would still never be behind Farmer 
> John. So, the only rest stops which Bessie might stop at are the ones which 
> have more tastiness than any subsequent rest stops.
> 
> We can find these "right-maximal" rest stops in a single right-to-left (or 
> end-to-start) scan, keeping track of the largest tastiness seen so far. If the 
> current stop exceeds the largest value seen so far, it is "right-maximal".
> 
> Now, we can simply perform a greedy algorithm: never stop at non-right-maximal 
> rest stops. At a right-maximal rest stop, Bessie should stop there as long as 
> possible (i.e. until Farmer John catches up with her). Then she proceeds, until 
> the next right-maximal rest stop.
> 
> To see correctness of this greedy algorithm, suppose Bessie did not spend as 
> long as possible at some right-maximal rest stop $R$. Then she would leave this 
> rest stop $t$ seconds early, for some positive $t$. Suppose the next place 
> Bessie stops is rest stop $r$. We could improve Bessie's tastiness intake by 
> having her spend $1$ less second at $r$, and $1$ more second at rest stop $R$. 
> It can be verified that Bessie will still never be behind Farmer John, and 
> since the tastiness at $R$ is greater than the tastiness at $r$, we improved 
> Bessie's outcome. Therefore no optimal solution will leave a right-maximal rest 
> stop early, and our greedy algorithm is correct.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Suppose that early in the hike, there is a rest stop with tastiness $A$,
but later there is a rest stop with tastiness $B$ where $B>A$. Then, it is never 
optimal for Bessie to spend any time at the first rest stop with tastiness $A$. 
If she did, she could spend the same amount of time at the later rest stop 
instead and earn more tastiness units; she would still never be behind Farmer 
John. So, the only rest stops that Bessie might stop at are those that have
more tastiness than any subsequent rest stops.

We can find these "right-maximal" rest stops in a single right-to-left (or end-to-start)
scan, keeping track of the largest tastiness seen so far.
If the current stop exceeds the largest value seen so far, it is "right-maximal."

Now, we can perform a greedy algorithm: never stop at non-right-maximal 
rest stops. Bessie should stop at a right-maximal rest stop as long as possible
(i.e., until Farmer John catches up with her). Then she proceeds until the next
right-maximal rest stop.

To see the correctness of this greedy algorithm, suppose Bessie did not spend as 
long as possible at some right-maximal rest stop $R$. Then she would leave this 
rest stop $t$ seconds early, for some positive $t$. Suppose the next place 
Bessie stops is rest stop $r$. We could improve Bessie's tastiness intake by 
having her spend $1$ less second at $r$, and $1$ more second at rest stop $R$. 
It can be verified that Bessie will still never be behind Farmer John, and 
since the tastiness at $R$ is greater than the tastiness at $r$, we improved 
Bessie's outcome. Therefore no optimal solution will leave a right-maximal rest 
stop early, and our greedy algorithm is correct.
```
